## Facial Recognition Implemented
In our society's current state of progress, it is almost expected that facial recognition software be used in things like traffic lights, Facebook, airport security, and crime, but recent progress has exceeded expectation, and brought the technology into human interactions. A prime example of unsettling implementation is in churches. Many churches have used the technology to track their members. They will see who is missing events or who is a regular attendee, and with that information they might know who to target for donations and who to notify about attending. Implementing this invasive technology has the potential to severely change the way we act in public settings.
China has decided to combat the issue of jaywalking with facial recognition. Not only are jaywalkers identified and exposed on a large LED screen, but they will also be fined immediately via text message. This particular system reveals the threats that facial recognition poses--primarily, the inability to hide your identity if your face is exposed.
The way that Facial Recognition has been used, has not been accessible to the common person. It has always been enforced by "authority," and often it is without the common person's knowledge. Leaving its use in the hands of higher ups, is asking for our private identities to be labelled and visible. It is asking for tracking and inhumane targeting. Capital gain is not a valid reason for invasion of privacy; whereas crime-fighting can be. Facial recognition technology is making big strides to finding trafficked children and fugitive criminals. This does not undermine the subsequent issue of bias in crime fighting, with the use of facial recognition. It may be able to guess who a criminal might be-even before they commit a crime, through machine learning-but that kind of detection dangerously relies on an inherently biased algorithm.
Another desire for progress in this field is efficiency. A traveller may hugely benefit from less paperwork and lines, through the immediate detection of their face, and a hotel-stayer may benefit from different treatment when detected as VIP or a celebrity. I believe that said "efficiency" will only result in more elitism.
